README.md, before:

# Release pull request action

This action is used to create release from commit history with

- Title based on release branch name or latest github release
- Description containing changelog based on commit messages (conventional commits messages)

## What it does

- It creates pull request with title of release branch version
- It generates change log from commits history, which can be shared in slack
- It creates github release
- It posts changelog to slack

## Action input

| Name                                | Description                                                                    | Example                         | Default        | Required | 
|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|----------------|----------|
| `github-token`                      | Github token with repository scope permissions                                 | `${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}`   | NO DEFAULT     | yes      |
| `changelog-scopes`                  | Scopes, that will be show in changelog                                         | `{"Worker": ["worker"]}`        | NO DEFAULT     | yes      |
| `changelog-method`                  | Source from which to create changelog                                          | `pull_request_description`      | NO DEFAULT     | yes      |
| `slack-token`                       | Slack token with `chat.postMessage` permissions                                | `${{ secrets.SLACK_TOKEN }}`    | NO DEFAULT     | no       |
| `slack-channel`                     | Slack channel ID                                                               | `XXXXXX`                        | NO DEFAULT     | no       |
| `release-name-method`               | Whether to fetch release name from branch name or bump minor of last release   | `branch`                        | `branch`       | no       |
| `create-release-pull-request`       | Whether to create release pull request                                         | `true`                          | `false`        | no       |
| `create-github-release      `       | Whether to create github release                                               | `true`                          | `false`        | no       |
| `base-branch`                       | Based branch where pull request will be created                                | `master`                        | `master`       | no       |
| `release-name-prefix`               | Prepend prefix to release name (version)                                       | `v`                             | `v`            | no       |
| `github-changelog-file-destination` | Where to store github changelog on filesystem                                  | `github_changelog.md`           | `changelog.md` | no       |

### Input details

* `changelog-method` can be one of:
  * `pull_request_description` - Changelog will taken from pull request's description (for `pull_request` trigger). Description can be edited manually.
                                 The resulting changelog text is taken from between `<!-- CHANGELOG -->` comments
  * `pull_request_commits`     - Changelog will taken from pull request's commit messages (for `pull_request` trigger)
  * `commits_compare`          - Changelog will taken from comparison of commit messages between 2 branches

* both `slack-token` and `slack-channel` must be set to send message to slack
* `release-name-method` can be on of:
  * `branch` - parse release name from branch name (i.e. `release/v1.2.3` -> `v.1.2.3`)
  * `tag`    - parse release name from latest and bump minor (i.e. `v1.2.3` -> `v.1.3.3`)
* `github-changelog-file-destination` controls the `github-changelog-file-destination` output

## Action output

| Name                                | Description                 | Example             |
| ----------------------------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------- |
| `github-changelog`                  | Changelog content           | `some cool feature` |
| `github-changelog-file-destination` | Changelog file destionation | `./changelog.md`    |

## Example usage

Example bellow opens pull request from head to base branch with changelog in it's description

```yaml
name: Release pull request

on:
  push:
    branches:
      - release/**

jobs:
  open-release-pr:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: run release-pr-action
        uses: apify/release-pr-action
        with: 
          github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          changelog-scopes: '{"Worker": ["worker"]}'
          create-release-pull-request: true
          changelog-method: commits_compare
```

Example bellow gets pull request description, parses changelog out of it, creates github release and sends changelog to slack

```yaml
name: Release pull request

on:
  push:
    branches:
      - release/**

jobs:
  open-release-pr:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: run release-pr-action
        uses: apify/release-pr-action
        with: 
          github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          slack-token: ${{ secrets.slackToken }}
          changelog-scopes: '{"Worker": ["worker"]}'
          slack-channel: 'XXXCCCVVVV'
          changelog-method: pull_request_description
          create-github-release: true
```

## Contribution

1. Run `fnm use` (or `nvm`, or any other node manager you use)
2. Update code in `./src`
3. Run `npm i`
4. Run `npm run all`
5. Commit all changes including `./dist` folder with built code.
6. Publish a new version of action using new release (It needs to be done manually)

Commit message:

feat: open AI experiment (#11)
Co-authored-by: František Nesveda <fnesveda@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Lukáš Novotný <33942303+dragonraid@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Jiří Moravčík <jiri.moravcik@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Release pull request action

This action is used to create release from commit history with

- Title based on release branch name or latest github release
- Description containing changelog based on commit messages (conventional commits messages)

## What it does

- It creates pull request with title of release branch version
- It generates change log from commits history, which can be shared in slack
- It creates github release
- It posts changelog to slack

## Action input

| Name                                | Description                                                                    | Example                         | Default        | Required |
|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|----------------|----------|
| `github-token`                      | Github token with repository scope permissions                                 | `${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}`   | NO DEFAULT     | yes      |
| `changelog-scopes`                  | Scopes, that will be show in changelog                                         | `{"Worker": ["worker"]}`        | NO DEFAULT     | yes      |
| `changelog-method`                  | Source from which to create changelog                                          | `pull_request_description`      | NO DEFAULT     | yes      |
| `slack-token`                       | Slack token with `chat.postMessage` permissions                                | `${{ secrets.SLACK_TOKEN }}`    | NO DEFAULT     | no       |
| `slack-channel`                     | Slack channel ID                                                               | `XXXXXX`                        | NO DEFAULT     | no       |
| `release-name-method`               | Whether to fetch release name from branch name or bump minor of last release   | `branch`                        | `branch`       | no       |
| `create-release-pull-request`       | Whether to create release pull request                                         | `true`                          | `false`        | no       |
| `create-github-release      `       | Whether to create github release                                               | `true`                          | `false`        | no       |
| `base-branch`                       | Based branch where pull request will be created                                | `master`                        | `master`       | no       |
| `release-name-prefix`               | Prepend prefix to release name (version)                                       | `v`                             | `v`            | no       |
| `github-changelog-file-destination` | Where to store github changelog on filesystem                                  | `github_changelog.md`           | `changelog.md` | no       |
| `open-ai-token`                     | Experimental feature see section [experimental feature](#experimental-feature).| `token`                         | NO_DEFAULT     | no       |

### Input details

* `changelog-method` can be one of:
  * `pull_request_description` - Changelog will taken from pull request's description (for `pull_request` trigger). Description can be edited manually.
                                 The resulting changelog text is taken from between `<!-- CHANGELOG -->` comments
  * `pull_request_commits`     - Changelog will taken from pull request's commit messages (for `pull_request` trigger)
  * `commits_compare`          - Changelog will taken from comparison of commit messages between 2 branches

* both `slack-token` and `slack-channel` must be set to send message to slack
* `release-name-method` can be on of:
  * `branch` - parse release name from branch name (i.e. `release/v1.2.3` -> `v.1.2.3`)
  * `tag`    - parse release name from latest and bump minor (i.e. `v1.2.3` -> `v.1.3.3`)
* `github-changelog-file-destination` controls the `github-changelog-file-destination` output

## Action output

| Name                                | Description                 | Example             |
| ----------------------------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------- |
| `github-changelog`                  | Changelog content           | `some cool feature` |
| `github-changelog-file-destination` | Changelog file destionation | `./changelog.md`    |

## Experimental feature

An experimental feature will rewrite the final changelog using GPT-3 davinci language model.
If you want to try, you need to pass the `open-ai-token` action input with your API token from [openai.com](https://beta.openai.com/).

## Example usage

Example bellow opens pull request from head to base branch with changelog in it's description

```yaml
name: Release pull request

on:
  push:
    branches:
      - release/**

jobs:
  open-release-pr:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: run release-pr-action
        uses: apify/release-pr-action
        with:
          github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          changelog-scopes: '{"Worker": ["worker"]}'
          create-release-pull-request: true
          changelog-method: commits_compare
```

Example bellow gets pull request description, parses changelog out of it, creates github release and sends changelog to slack

```yaml
name: Release pull request

on:
  push:
    branches:
      - release/**

jobs:
  open-release-pr:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: run release-pr-action
        uses: apify/release-pr-action
        with:
          github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          slack-token: ${{ secrets.slackToken }}
          changelog-scopes: '{"Worker": ["worker"]}'
          slack-channel: 'XXXCCCVVVV'
          changelog-method: pull_request_description
          create-github-release: true
```

## Contribution

1. Run `fnm use` (or `nvm`, or any other node manager you use)
2. Update code in `./src`
3. Run `npm i`
4. Run `npm run all`
5. Commit all changes including `./dist` folder with built code.
6. Publish a new version of action using new release (It needs to be done manually)
